services/resource-server/README.md, before:

# Resource Server

Scaffold for a simple Resource microservice.

## Endpoints

- GET /resources — list resources
- POST /resources — create resource (body: { name, type, quantity, metadata, owner })
- GET /resources/:id — get resource
- PUT /resources/:id — update resource
- DELETE /resources/:id — delete resource

## Run

```powershell
cd services/resource-server
npm install
npm start
```

### Sample curl POST

```
curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"name": "hello"}' http://localhost:4000/resources
```

### Sample curl GET

```
curl http://localhost:4000/resources/res_8fffc157-8eaa-4fba-a636-0f0ac337d3f8
```

## Tests

```
cd services/resource-server
npm install
npm test
```

## Using DynamoDB

Set `RESOURCE_STORE=dynamo` and configure `AWS_REGION` and `DYNAMO_TABLE` (see `.env.example`). The server will use DynamoDB as the backing store and expose the same `/resources` API.

Note: the DynamoDB adapter uses `Scan` for list operations (suitable for small datasets / dev). For production usage, add proper indexes and queries.

### AWS profile & config (recommended)

The AWS SDK resolves credentials and region using the standard provider chain, so for local development it's recommended to configure your profile in `~/.aws/credentials` and `~/.aws/config` rather than committing secrets.

Create a profile with the AWS CLI:

```bash
aws configure --profile dev
```

Use the profile for a session (PowerShell):

```powershell
$env:AWS_PROFILE = 'dev'
# optionally enable loading shared config for region from ~/.aws/config
$env:AWS_SDK_LOAD_CONFIG = '1'
```

Use the profile in bash:

```bash
export AWS_PROFILE=dev
export AWS_SDK_LOAD_CONFIG=1
```

You can still set `AWS_REGION` and `DYNAMO_TABLE` in `services/resource-server/.env` for convenience.

### Local development with LocalStack

To run against LocalStack (DynamoDB emulation) set the `RESOURCE_STORE` to `dynamo` and point the client at the LocalStack endpoint. Example environment settings:

```powershell
setx RESOURCE_STORE dynamo
setx AWS_REGION us-east-1
setx DYNAMO_TABLE Resources
setx DYNAMO_ENDPOINT http://localhost:4566
```

The DynamoDB adapter now supports `DYNAMO_ENDPOINT`, so the client will point at LocalStack when that variable is set.

Commit message:

added description to resource-server. added makefile to start and test stuff easier.

services/resource-server/README.md, after:

# Resource Server

Scaffold for a simple Resource microservice.

## Endpoints

- GET /resources — list resources
- POST /resources — create resource (body: { name, type, quantity, description?, metadata, owner })
- GET /resources/:id — get resource
- PUT /resources/:id — update resource
- DELETE /resources/:id — delete resource

## Run

```powershell
cd services/resource-server
npm install
npm start
```

### Sample curl POST

```
curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"name": "hello"}' http://localhost:4000/resources
```

### Sample curl GET

```
curl http://localhost:4000/resources/res_8fffc157-8eaa-4fba-a636-0f0ac337d3f8
```

## Tests

```
cd services/resource-server
npm install
npm test
```

## Using DynamoDB

Set `RESOURCE_STORE=dynamo` and configure `AWS_REGION` and `DYNAMO_TABLE` (see `.env.example`). The server will use DynamoDB as the backing store and expose the same `/resources` API.

Note: the DynamoDB adapter uses `Scan` for list operations (suitable for small datasets / dev). For production usage, add proper indexes and queries.

Fields

- `description` (optional string): free-text description for the resource. It's optional and may be included on create or update. The server validates that `description` is a string when present.

### AWS profile & config (recommended)

The AWS SDK resolves credentials and region using the standard provider chain, so for local development it's recommended to configure your profile in `~/.aws/credentials` and `~/.aws/config` rather than committing secrets.

Create a profile with the AWS CLI:

```bash
aws configure --profile dev
```

Use the profile for a session (PowerShell):

```powershell
$env:AWS_PROFILE = 'dev'
# optionally enable loading shared config for region from ~/.aws/config
$env:AWS_SDK_LOAD_CONFIG = '1'
```

Use the profile in bash:

```bash
export AWS_PROFILE=dev
export AWS_SDK_LOAD_CONFIG=1
```

You can still set `AWS_REGION` and `DYNAMO_TABLE` in `services/resource-server/.env` for convenience.

### Local development with LocalStack

To run against LocalStack (DynamoDB emulation) set the `RESOURCE_STORE` to `dynamo` and point the client at the LocalStack endpoint. Example environment settings:

```powershell
setx RESOURCE_STORE dynamo
setx AWS_REGION us-east-1
setx DYNAMO_TABLE Resources
setx DYNAMO_ENDPOINT http://localhost:4566
```

The DynamoDB adapter now supports `DYNAMO_ENDPOINT`, so the client will point at LocalStack when that variable is set.
